Alright, before we even get into doing
the backend stuff, something I just noticed here
and this is, like it bugs me a lot,
is when you can't like click anywhere around it
and you have to actually click the little check box itself,
that's really annoying.
And the reason why I put a label around the input
is so that we can make that label as big as possible
and then you should be able
to click anywhere inside of here.
So let's go fix that real quick.
If you open up the table dot js styled component
and let's go ahead and write a new selector for labels
that are only inside of the td, so right here,
we'll say label and let's just say background red
just to see what we're working with, good.
And then we wanna display block on them
because we want them to go as wide as possible, good.
And now if I click on a label it's still not working.
Let's open up our capital P, Permissions
and see if we've got everything lined up properly.
We've got this label here
and we've got the input.
So the thing we're missing is an id
that is matched with this For,
so actually just take the labels htmlFor
and all of this and then go to your input,
paste it in, and change that to an id.
And now that allows us to click the label.
And the reason why that works
is because if you have an id that matches a labels,
or sorry, if you have a labels For attribute
that matches and inputs id,
then you can click the label and check
the associated input and that's really what I like.
I hate it when websites don't have that, so that's good.
The second thing is it's not stretching
the entire height of this and that's because
there is padding on the td.
So what we need to do is take the padding off the td,
it's this one right here, and then go to the label,
actually let's just move it down to the label.
And we should get, there we go,
we got the same amount that we're working with here.
It looks like we're butting up a little bit here
so let's just put a little bit of padding on this one,
maybe 5px, so it's not looking like too much garbage.
Beautiful, we take the ugly red off,
actually it's the same red I'm using everywhere else
so not that ugly, and it looks good.
So that's what we wanted to do, just a little bit
of a fix there.
Jump into the style component, close everything out.
Now let's start with what this video's actually about
and what I'd like to do is to code the backend up for this.
So let's flip over to the backend, just purple,
and the first thing we wanna do is open up our schema
and go down to our Mutations and add in a new Mutation,
that's called, updatePermissions.
That will take in an array of permissions
which the type of that is an array of the Permission,
because this is a custom-type of Permission.
If we look at our data model you'll see
that we created this custom-type right here,
which is the enum, and again this makes sure
that someone is only able to set these values
and no other values that they just made up willy-nilly.
So if you wanna add an additional Permission,
you both need to add it in this enum
as well as in the script file
that we were working on previously.
We also need to pass a userId
which is going to be a type of ID,
and that is required, so put a bang on the end there,
and from that we are just going to return the User.
So that's good and anytime we add our schema
we need to open up our Mutation and code a resolver
that matches that.
So let's go down to the bottom here,
crate a new resolver called, updatePermissions,
do our whole song and dance, parent, args, context,
and info, we'll mark that as async.
And we're gonna do a couple things here.
First Query the current user.
Actually first we should, check if they are logged in.
Second, Query the current user.
Third, Check if they have permissions to do this.
And then four, Update the permissions.
So first, Check if they are logged in,
if there's no context dot request dot userId
throw a new Error, You must be logged in.
Second, Query the current user so it's a,
const currentUser is equal to
await ctx dot db dot query dot user.
We wanna query the current user, where,
the id is equal to, the current id,
so ctx dot request dot userId,
and then this query also needs to pass along the info,
then check if they have Permissions to do so,
so, hasPermission currentUser, pass the current user,
pass an aray of possible Permissions that we're looking for.
So we're looking for either ADMIN
or PERMISSIONUPDATE
and then that will throw an error
if no one has it.
Oh, we don't have this, hasPermission imported yet.
We did that in the query.
Let's just open up the query resolver real quick
and grab that import, pop it at the top
of our imports in here.
We'll go back down and then finally
we need to update the Permission.
So we could either do the updated Permission
then return the user or, as you know,
we can also just return the query from this resolver
and that will work as well.
So we're gonna, return
the context dot database dot mutation dot updateUser
and that's the Prisma surfaced
update user method that we have.
And from that we need to pass a couple of things.
First we wanna pass the, data that needs to be updated,
and second we wanna pass the,
where the data needs to be updated.
And third we wanna pass, the info of the query
to the updated user.
So first what data needs to be set?
Well, the permissions needs to be set
to the updated permissions
and that's coming in via the arguments of this request.
So normally I think you just say,
args dot permissions,
but because permissions is it's own enum,
we have to use this set syntax that comes along with Prisma.
So say, permissions, set args dot permissions.
So far so good.
Then we'll go into here, where,
the id is equal to the args dot userID,
and the reason why I'm not using
context that requests that userID
is because we might not necessarily be updating
our own user, we might be updating someone else.
So we have to pass the userID along for the ride
along with the permissions.
And that seems to have worked.
So go over to the client side and now write
a Mutation that will fire as soon as you click
on this UPDATE button.
So I'll flip over to the front end,
open up your capital P, Permission component.
And let's head up to the top here.
Right below this possiblePermissions,
either above or below the All USERS QUERY,
we're gonna write our graph ql mutation.
Const UPDATE PERMISSIONS MUTATION is equal to gql.
Let's double check that we've imported that,
yes we have.
Then it's out of that we'll write
a Mutation called updatePermissions,
takes in one argument which is permissions,
and that is an array of Permission.
Also takes in a userId, 'cause it's just like
we were in our schema that has an ID.
That will in turn run the function called,
updatePermissions, or a pass the permissions.
I'm gonna say permissions again
and we pass the userId as the userId.
And from that we wanna return the id,
the permissions, the name, and the email.
So that is our Mutation that we have here.
We're now gonna take this Mutation
and we're gonna import the Mutation component
from react apollo
and then we need to inject this Mutation
into our user component.
So go down here to our render of the user component,
right now we're just wrapping a tr,
so we'll go and wrap it even further.
Say Mutation, the mutation is going to be,
the UPDATE PERMISSIONS MUTATION.
And the variables for this one, again,
you can either pass the variables
into the Mutation component
or you can pass them at the time of calling.
If I can, if I do know the data
at the time of authoring,
I will always pass it as a prop on Mutation,
otherwise you can pass it at the time of calling.
So the variables that we're gonna pass,
it's an object literal here,
the permissions is gonna be
equal to this dot state dot permissions,
and the userId is equal to,
this dot props dot user dot id.
Let's go inside this Mutation
and write our little arrow function of death
that we have here.
So, that's an arrow function.
And inside of that arrow function the first argument is,
updatePermisisons, that's not destructured,
but the second argument is destructured into,
loading and error.
Then you can take this closing of your implicit return
and the closing Mutation.
We'll go for a little bit of a ride,
doot, doot, doot, doot, doot, doot, do.
Give it a save.
Everything is fixed here.
Now we've exposed this function here,
that should not be called updated,
it should be called updatePermissions.
Now we can run this function on our Button click.
So go down to the SickButton,
give it a type of button.
We'll say it's disabled if we are currently loading,
'cause you don't want someone to be able
to click it multiple times.
So if someone fires off a request,
loading will turn true and that will in turn
disable the SickButton from being clicked a second time.
And then onClick, we can simply say, updatePermisisons.
I don't think that we need to an inline function here
where we pass the event, like we've previously done,
because we don't need to event dot, prevent default here.
We can just run that updatePermissions.
Now here's what we've all been waiting for.
Let's open up our Console,
click on ITEMCREATE, UPDATE.
We've got a bit of an Error.
And this is actually because, well actually
I don't know why it's happening
but it's, it's giving, you know,
like this very vague Error, Network error,
Response not successful.
And there's two ways we should do this.
First you should actually be displaying this to the user
so that you can tell them what went wrong,
but second if you ever see these like weird 400 errors,
you can always go to your Network tab
and find the 400ed request and that will actually give you
the error message that we have there.
But let's actually go ahead and fix this first of all.
So we have this updatedPermissions,
what we can do is if we have an error,
then we can simply render out the error component,
otherwise, or we can use && here.
Then because these are two siblings we need
to wrap them in a react fragment
and that'll allow us to return to sibling elements.
So only if we have an error we need
to return actually a table row
with an error inside of it.
That should look pretty good.
Let's UPDATE, there we go.
Shoot Cannot query.
Probably also wanna pass a td in there
with a colspan of 3 or 4 or 8.
There we go.
So every time you, if any of these goof up
you're gonna get a little error that goes above it.
So now let's focus on what is the actual error.
Shoot Cannot query field, updatedPermissions,
on type Mutation, did you mean, updatePermissions?
Ah, okay, so where did we goof that up?
Ah, I said, updatedPermissions, it's updatePermissions,
and same with this one, it's updatePermisisons,
give it a save.
This is the one that actually really matters.
This is just the name that we're naming it client side.
So I bet, let's give it a good refresh here
in order to add some new values, UPDATE,
and it worked.
You see that, it just temporarily goes blank there.
We can do a little bit better then that.
And go down to our SickButton,
so remove the E off that, and we'll say,
if it's loading then give ourselves an I-N-G,
otherwise gives ourselves an E.
Ah, look how awesome that is.
So let's check now, if I were to add
some of these values here, and refresh,
they'd, they stay there.
They're going into the database now
because if I were to UPDATE it, they stay there.
They are going into the database,
'cause I do a quick refresh,
all the values are still there.
So that is our whole kinda circle of Permissions,
not the easiest thing to do, but what I find
with these things is once you have coded
your first Permission system you can move that,
those ideas, and even the code, to a whole bunch
of other ones and even this whole Permissions component
would be fairly easy to move from project to project.
So, one last thing I wanna show you
is something that I actually stumble upon all the time
and what if you wanted to call
this updatePermissions function inside of
the onChange handler meaning that
after we actually do it every single time
that we make a change maybe
it should just update automatically
so we don't have to remember to click the UPDATE button,
'cause that could be a potential issue.
So I was like, oh, that' super easy right?
You just have to call this, updatePermissions function
inside of our hand, oh, how do you get
one of these functions,
like that is exposed via our Mutation,
like how do you get that outside, right?
Because if it's being exposed by this render prop,
you can't do a render prop inside of here,
and I think this is a bit of a downside to render props,
but I'm gonna show you how to do it anyway.
So the way that it would work is you change this,
onChange, you don't have to do this,
I'm gonna revert it for the end of this video,
but the way that you can do it
is you can run an inline function that passes the event,
and then you run the, this dot handlePermissionChange
and pass the event, but then you,
as a second argument, you can also pass the function
that you wish to call.
So that's called, updatePermissions,
and I give that a save.
Then we can go up to our handlePermissionChange function
and change it so that it takes in the event, of course,
but also takes in the updatePermissions,
man, I don't like this update and updatedPermissions,
it's too close to each other.
But now we have access to this function
that was exposed via the render prop
and then the last thing we can do, after we set state,
is that we can just simply call
the updatePermissions function a manual error
or inside of this, this thing here.
So that should now allow us every single time
that I change one of these,
you see that it just flips to the updating state
without us having to.
We can still manually update it ourselves
by clicking the button,
but it will also trigger that for us, so.
Let me just cut in here real quick
with a little, I guess a little lesson on this.
And what's happening here is that we're running
updatePermissions, if you chose to go this way,
and that is using the variables that come from State.
And we're assuming that it's gonna work here because
we're calling setState
and then we're running updatePermissions.
However, that's not always guaranteed
and that's because setState is actually
an asynchronous function, meaning that,
it's going to go off and update State for us,
but the reason why we use setState
is because React is going to figure out
when it should best update State and there is
a slight chance that you have this setState
that gets called and then updatePermission gets called,
but this is going to run before updating State
is actually finished.
So if you ever run into an issue where
you're trying to run a function here,
but State isn't updated yet, that's because setState
is still sort of running in the background asynchronously.
So that is, the solution to that is,
you use what's called a call back function
inside of setState that will be called
when State has actually been updated.
Now very rarely do you run into this,
but if you do in this case, the way that it works
is you have a comma, and then you can run
an actual function here and then this function
is a call back and you can put
your updatePermission inside of there
and by the time this runs we can guarantee
that State has then been updated.
You can actually even simplify this a lot
by just passing the reference to the function,
updatePermission, and that will only call it
once the setState has actually finished.
So if you run into that issue that's how you fix it.
I'm gonna bring this right back and we'll keep
going on with the video.
So pretty, pretty neat little way of doing it.
I'm gonna revert it, so remove, take that out,
but feel free to keep that in there
if you like that functionality.
And we change this to that, doot, doot, do,
and everything still works, beautiful.
So we got a couple little more things to do
in the next Permission video
and then we're done with Permissions.